docs(unreal): opt-in native app-hang tracking on desktop platforms (#18534)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/unreal/configuration/app-hangs/index.mdx

description: "Learn how to detect and report application hangs in your Unreal Engine game."
---

Application hang errors are triggered when a monitored thread becomes unresponsive for longer than a configurable timeout. The Unreal SDK reports hang errors as Sentry events.

Trying to play an unresponsive game is extremely frustrating for users. There are many reasons why an app may become unresponsive, such as long-running computations on the game thread, infinite loops, deadlocks, and so on. With app hang tracking you can detect and fix them.

The SDK can detect hangs in one of two ways:

- **Engine watcher** (default) — hooks into Unreal Engine's built-in `FThreadHeartBeat` system.
- **Native watchdog** — uses the sentry-native SDK's built-in app-hang detector.

<Alert>

> The engine watcher is available on Windows and Linux. The native watchdog is available on Windows, Linux, and macOS (with the <PlatformLink to="/configuration/native-backend/">native backend</PlatformLink>). On macOS and iOS, the Cocoa SDK provides its own <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#enableAppNotRespondingTracking">app hang detection</PlatformLink>. On Android, the Java SDK provides its own <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#enableAppNotRespondingTracking">ANR detection</PlatformLink>.

Reviewer: suggestion: make it a bit more clear that the native backend applies only to macOS
```suggestion
The engine watcher is available on Windows and Linux. The native watchdog is available on Windows, Linux, and macOS (which needs the <PlatformLink to="/configuration/native-backend/">native backend</PlatformLink>). On macOS and iOS, the Cocoa SDK provides its own <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#enableAppNotRespondingTracking">app hang detection</PlatformLink>. On Android, the Java SDK provides its own <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#enableAppNotRespondingTracking">ANR detection</PlatformLink>.
```

HangTimeoutDuration=5.0
```

With the engine watcher, if the configured timeout is shorter than the engine's `StuckDuration`, it will be automatically adjusted upward to match, since the SDK can only start tracking after the engine reports a thread as stuck.

## Filtering Hang Events

You can filter or modify hang events using the `BeforeSend` callback. The `USentryEvent` class provides an `IsAnr()` method that returns `true` for hang events captured by either detection mechanism:

```cpp

> UCLASS()

Author: Implementation checks for both - https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-unreal/pull/1427/commits/8c396430d9e2bc286366a4227d47febe40d2d612
